>>> ON THIS EDITION FOR SATURDAY
JANUARY 4th, DANGEROUSLY LOW
TEMPERATURES HEAD TO THE PLAIN
AND THE MIDWEST.
IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT, HO
MUSIC EDUCATION IS GIVIN
INNER CITY CHILDREN AN
ACADEMIC HEAD START.
>> THE IDEA WAS NEVER TO MAK
MUSICIANS.
THE IDEA WAS TO BUILD HIGHLY
FUNCTIONING RESPONSIBL
CITIZENS
>> AND OUR OBSESSION WIT
KEEPING TRACK OF OURSELVES
NEXT ON PBS "THE NEWSHOU
WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISH WNET STUDIOS, HARI
SREENIVASAN.
>> GOOD EVENING, THANK YOU FOR
JOINING US, WHAT THE WEATHER
CHANNEL IS DESCRIBING AS LOWS OF
MINUS 25 ARE EXPECT IN
MINNEAPOLIS, MINUS 22 IN NORTH
DAKOTA, MINUS 8 IN KANSAS CITY
AND MINUS 7 IN ST. LOUIS
IT IS GOING TO BE ACCOMPANIED BY
STRONG WINDS MAKING IT FEE
COLDER
YOU CAN SUFFER FROSTBITE IF YO
ARE EXPOSED ONLY BRIEFLY
>>> FROM SEATTLE, BOEING'S UNION
WORKERS APPROVED CONDITIONS TO
BUILD THE 777 X JETLINER I
WASHINGTON STATE
THE UNION INITIALLY REJECTED
CONCESSIONS ON PENSIONS AN
HEALTH CARE COSTS.
>>> OVERSEAS, SECRETARY OF STATE
JOHN KERRY MET WITH TH
PALESTINIAN PRESIDENT AND THEY
ARE MOVING CLOSER TO THE
FRAMEWORK OF A PEACE AGREEMENT
>>> A HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIO
SAYS NATO'S PLANS TO WITHDRA
TROOPS FROM AFGHANISTAN IS
LEADING TO MORE BRUTAL AND
VIOLENT ATTACKS AGAINST WOME
THERE.
WOMEN ARE BEING CUT, STONED AN
RAPED BY MEN MORE OFTEN.
THE NUMBER OF DOCUMENTED ATTACKS
GREW BY 25% BETWEEN MARCH AN
SEPTEMBER OF 2013.
>>> THE RUSSIAN PRESIDENT WILL
ALLOW PUBLIC ROW TESTS IN SOCH
DURING THE UPCOMING WINTER
OLYMPICS
THE DEMONSTRATIONS, WHICH WILL
REQUIRE OFFICIAL APPROVAL WILL
BE ALLOWED IN A PARK HALFWAY
BETWEEN THE CITY CENTER AND TH
OLYMPIC VILLAGE.
HE HAS GRANTED AMNESTY TO POLICE
POLITICAL PRISONERS AN
GREENPEACE ACTIVISTS
>>> FACE TO FACE PEACE TALKS I
SUDAN HAVE BEGUN
1,000 HAVE BEEN KILL & 200,000
DISPLACED AFTER THREE WEEKS OF
VIOLENCE
ALL THIS WEEK, THE U.S. EMBASS
HAS BEEN EVACUATING AMERICAN
STATIONED IN THAT COUNTRY.
>>> WORD THAT POPE FRANCIS HAS
TAKEN TO PERSONALLY CALLIN
PEOPLE
COLD CALLING THEM.
REPORTS FROM SPAIN SAY THAT HE
CALLED NUNS TO OFFER NEW YEAR'
WISHES SO HE DID WHAT THE REST
OF US WOULD HAVE DONE, HE LEFT A
VOICE MAIL
ONE OF THE NUNS LITERALLY WANTED
TO DIE AFTER REALIZING SHE
MISSED THE POPE'S CALL
THE NUNS WERE PRAYING AT THE
TIME
>>> AND NOW TO IRAQ WHERE
REMARKABLE STORY IS PLAYING OU
IN RAMADI AND FALLUJAH
MEMBERS OF AN AL QAEDA
AFFILIATED GROUP KNOWN ADDS ISIS
HAVE OVERRUN BOTH CITIES
"THE WASHINGTON POST'S" LI
SLEIGH IS JOINING US VIA SKYPE
WHAT IS HAPPENING YESTERDAY AN
WHAT IS HAPPENING TODAY?
>> YESTERDAY WE SAW THE AL QAEDA
GROUP BASICALLY CLAIM THEY WER
IN CONTROL OF FALLUJAH AND I
DOES LOOK LIKE THEY ARE AS MUC
IN CONTROL OF THAT CITY AS
ANYONE ELSE.
THEY HAVE RAISED THEIR FLAG OVER
THE TOWN AND THE IRAQI ARMY IS
OUTSIDE THE TOWN
TODAY WE SAW THE IRAQI ARM
SHELLING THE TOWN AND SEEMINGL
FROM THE OUTSKIRTS IN WHICH THEY
WERE TRYING TO GET BACK IN THE
TOWN
BUT AS FAR AS I CAN GATHER
PEOPLE IN FALLUJAH HAVE NOT BEEN
ABLE TO REENTER AS OF NOW.
>> YESTERDAY, THE IRAQI MILITARY
AND POLICE WITHDREW WHEN THE
SAW ISIS WAS HERE.
>> THIS WAS THE CULMINATION OF
VIOLENT EVENTS IN WHICH TH
IRAQI ARMY AND SECURITY FORCES
WERE FORCED TO FLEE FROM
FALLUJAH AND RAMADI.
THEY HAVE HAD SUCCESSES GETTIN
BACK INTO RAMADI BUT NOT I
FALLUJAH
>> HOW IS THE SITUATION IN
FALLUJAH CHANGED SINCE THE U.S
WITHDREW TROOPS?
>> THE U.S. WITHDREW SLOWLY OVER
A PERIOD OF TIME AND THEY WERE
HANDING POWER TO THE IRAQI
SECURITY FORCES.
BUT ONE OF THE BIGGER PICTUR
ISSUES THAT HAS GONE ON IN THA
TIME IS THAT THE PRIME MINISTE
HAS NOT BEEN PARTICULARL
COMMUNITIES IN THESE SUNNI AREAS
AND THAT HAS CAUSED A LOT OF
RESENTMENT TO THE CENTRA
GOVERNMENT
IT IS A CONTINUATION OF TH
SECTARIAN TENSIONS THAT WERE
STIRRED UP BY THE U.S. INVASIO
OF IRAQ AND A FAILURE OF THE
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT TO INCLUD
THESE AREAS IN THE POLITICS OF
THE COUNTRY IN A WAY THAT MIGH
HAVE COME FROM THE CENTRAL DOWN.
THERE ARE DIFFICULT THINGS GOING
ON
>> HAS THE SITUATION IN SYRI
MADE IT EASIER FOR THE ISLAMIC
MOVEMENT OF -- WHAT WAS IT THE
ISLAMIC STATE OF IRAQ AND SYRI
TO ESTABLISH A FOOTHOLD IN
RAMADI AND FALLUJAH?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
THEY HAVE TAKEN OVER TERRITORY
IN AREAS BORDERING IRAQ.
IT IS GIVING THEM FREEDOM OF
MOVEMENT AND THAT HAS MADE I
MUCH EASIER FOR THEM TO ASSERT
THEMSELVES IN THE IRAQ
PROVINCES FROM WHICH THE
AMERICAN TROOPS THOUGHT THEY HAD
DRIVEN THEM OUT.
>> ARE WE SEEING A SPLINTERING
OF IRAQ?
>> YES, OF THE WHOLE REGION AT
THE MOMENT
THE REGION IS FRACTURING ALONG
FAULT LINES THAT WERE ALWAYS
THERE BUT IN THE ABSENCE OF AN
STRONG CENTRAL GOVERNMEN
ANYWHERE IN THE REGION
EXTREMISTS ARE ASSERTING
THEMSELVES IN THIS AREA AN
OTHER GROUPS ARE ASSERTING
THEMSELVES HERE AND THERE.
AND THE REGION IS FRAGMENTING.
>> HOW DOES THAT AFFECT TH
UNITED STATES?
>> THE U.S. TROOPS PUT A LOT O
BLOOD ON THE LINES TO DEFEND THE
STATE OF IRAQ, A LOT OF MONE
WAS SPENT.
BUT THE BARACK OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION HAS PUBLICL
DECLARED A WISH TO NOT B
INVOLVED IN THE MIDDLE EAST AS
PREVIOUS ADMINISTRATIONS WERE.
AND THE RESULT OF THAT I
OBVIOUSLY A LOT OF TURMOIL AND
UPHEAVAL BECAUSE AMERICA WAS THE
BIGGEST POWER IN THIS REGION
>> LIZ SLEIGH OF THE "WASHINGTON
POST" THANKS SO MUCH
>> THANK YOU
>>> AND NOW TO OUR SIGNATURE
SEGMENT, OUR INDEPTH REPORTS
FROM AROUND THE NATION AND
AROUND THE WORLD
TONIGHT WE LOOK AT THE POSSIBL
LIRNG BETWEEN MUSIC AN
LEARNING
THERE WAS A SHARP DROP IN MUSI
EDUCATION PROGRAMS IN TH
NATION'S SCHOOL DURING THE
QUARTER SEARCHING ENDING IN 2008
AND SOME WERE CUT FOLLOWING TH
GREAT RECESSION.
WHAT AFFECT THAT HAS HAD O
LEARNING IS DIFFICULT TO
QUANTIFY BUT THERE IS EVIDENCE
THAT PRACTICING AND PLAYIN
MUSIC REGULARLY HELPS LOW-INCOME
CHILDREN MAKE UP LOST GROUND
JOSH ARRINGTON REPORTS FROM LO
ANGELES.
>> Reporter: SHE LIVES IN ONE OF
THE POOREST NEIGHBORHOODS IN LOS
ANGELES AND SHE WAS STRUGGLING
IN SCHOOL.
[ SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE
HER INTEREST IN LEARNING MUSIC
PROMPTED HER PARENTS TO ENROLL
HER IN A MUSIC PROGRAM IN THEI
NEIGHBORHOOD CALLED THE HARMON
PROJECT.
IN THE THREE YEARS SINCE, MUCH
HAS CHANGED IN HER LIFE.
>> MUSIC IS LIKE A DIALOGUE.
WE CAN PLAY A CERTAIN THING.
LET SAY THE VIOLINS CAN PLAY
SOMETHING BACK
IT CAN BE THE SAME MELODY BU
DIFFERENT NOTES.
IT'S A CONVERSATION TALKING BACK
AND FORTH.
>> Reporter: SERVING 2,000
STUDENTS WITH A BUDGET OF $2.5
MILLION.
THE MOSTLY PRIVATELY FUNDE
HARMONY PROJECT IS FILLING A GAP
IN PUBLIC EDUCATION PROGRAMS
STUDENTS GET AT LEAST FIVE HOURS
OF MUSIC CLASSES EACH WEEK YEA
ROUND.
FOR THE POOREST STUDENTS IT'
FREE, INCLUDING THE INSTRUMENT
MARGARET MARTIN STARTED TH
HARMONY PROJECT IN 2001 AFTE
WITNESSING SOMETHING ON TH
STREETS OF HER HOMETOWN, LOS
ANGELES.
>> THIS POSITIONY OF GAN
MEMBERS WALKS INTO A FORMER'
MARKET AND STOPS TO LISTEN TO
KID PLAYING A VIOLIN
THAT SHAVED HEADS ATTITUDE
AFTER FIVE OR SIX MINUTE
WITHOUT SAYING A WORD, THE
PULLED OUT THEIR OWN MONEY AND
LAY IT GENTLY IN THE CHILD'S
CASE
THOSE GUN MEMBERS WERE TEACHIN
ME THEY WOULD RATHER BE DOIN
WHAT THAT CHILD WAS DOING THAN
WHAT THEY WERE DOING BUT THE
NEVER HAD THE CHANCE
HARMONY PROJECT IS A RESEARC
BASED PROGRAM.
>> Reporter: THEY ARE STARTED IN
TOUGH INNER CITY AREAS TO SERV
CHILDREN OF POVERTY.
>> DROPOUT RATES ARE 50% IN TH
NEIGHBORHOODS.
MORE THAN 80% OF POOR BLACK AN
HISPANIC KIDS DO NOT READ AT
GRADE LEVEL.
>> Reporter: CHILDREN WHOS
MOTHERS HAVE LITTLE EDUCATIO
ARE RARELY BEING READ TO AND
VERBAL INTERACTION IN THOS
FAMILIES IS MINIMAL.
SCIENTISTS BELIEVE THIS NOT ONLY
PUTS THEM BEHIND IN SCHOOL BUT
THOSE CHILDREN RARELY CATCH UP
BECAUSE THEIR BRAINS ARE NOT
DEVELOPING AS RAPIDLY.
>> EARLY SUSTAINED MUSIC
LEARNING IS ACTUALLY THE
FRAME -- THE FRAME UPON WHIC
EDUCATION ITSELF CAN BE BUIL
FOR LOW-INCOME KIDS.
>> Reporter: MARGARET MARTIN WAS
CONVINCED OF THAT BECAUSE OF THE
GRADUATION RATE OF KIDS WHO HAVE
GONE THROUGH HER PROGRAM
THIS YEAR SHE SAYS 93% OF THEM
FINISHED HIGH SCHOOL IN FOUR
YEARS AND WENT TO COLLEGE.
BUT MARTIN ACKNOWLEDGES SHE DOES
NOT HAVE THE FORMAL TRAINING T
PROVE THAT MUSIC HELPS KID
GRASP LANGUAGE BETTER AND BECOME
MORE PROFICIENT READERS.
SO SHE ENLISTED THE HELP O
DR. NINA CROUSE.
FOR 25 YEARS SHE HAS STUDIED HOW
THE BRAIN PROCESSES INFORMATION.
THE NEUROBIOLOGY OF AUDITO
LEARNING
>> WHAT IS THE CONNECTION?
>> THERE IS A CONNECTION IN WHEN
YOU LEARNING TO READ YOU HAVE TO
CONNECT THE SOUNDS OF WORDS YO
HAVE HEARD FOR MANY YEARS WITH
THE SYMBOL ON THE PAGE
YOU ARE MAKE A SOUND TO MEANIN
CONNECTION
>> Reporter: NO ONE HAS PROVEN
CONCLUSIVELY THAT MUSIC IMPROVES
LEARNING AND SOME STUDIES HAVE
FOUND NO LINK AT ALL
BUT AFTER BEING CONTACTED BY
MARTIN, THE SCIENTIST DESIGNED
TESTS TO MEASURE THE IMPAC
MUSIC HAD ON THIS GROUP OF KIDS.
DR. CROUSE STARTED IN 2011
THE STUDENTS CAME FROM SIMILAR
BACKGROUNDS AND WERE ALL
MOTIVATED TO LEARN MUSIC AT TH
HARMONY PROJECT.
HALF THE KIDS WERE SELECTED TO
START MUSIC STUDY THEN AND THE
OTHER HALF, THE CONTROL GROU
WAITED A YEAR TO BEGIN
DR. CROUSE'S TEAM TOOK A MOBIL
TESTING LAB TO L.A. AT THE
BEGINNING AND ONCE A YEAR FO
TWO YEARS TO ASSESS THE CHANGE
IN KIDS BRAIN RESPONSE I
SPECIFIC AREAS IMPORTANT FOR
GOOD READING AND LEARNIN
SKILLS
WHAT ARE THE TESTS LIKE THAT YOU
DO ON THE KIDS TO MEASURE THES
THINGS
>> WE ARE INTERESTED IN RHYTHMIC
SKILLS
WE ASK THEM TO TAP ALONG WITH
STEADY RHYTHM.
>> NOW WE ARE GOING TO TAP
FASTER
>> IF YOU PRESENT A BEAT ON
METRONOME THAT ABILITY IS LINKED
TO READING ABILITY
WE ASK THEM TO LISTEN TO WORDS
OR PARTS OF WORDS.
>> IMAGINE YOU ARE AT A PARTY.
THERE WILL BE A WOMAN TALKIN
AND SEVERAL TALKERS IN THE
BACKGROUND
>> WE HAVE THEM LISTEN T
SENTENCES PRESENTED IN NOISY
BACKGROUNDS AND THEY HAVE TO
REPEAT BACK AS MUCH AS THEY WERE
ABLE TO HEAR
>> THE PIN SELL --
>> AND THE BACKGROUND IS NOISIER
AND IT IS HARDER AND HARDER TO
HEAR THE SOUNDS.
PEOPLE WHO HAVE HAD MUSICA
TRAINING ARE BETTER AT HEARING
SPEECH IN NOISE.
AND IT'S NOT THAT DIFFERENT FROM
WHAT YOU'RE ASKING YOUR NERVOU
SYSTEM TO DO WHEN YOU AR
LISTENING FOR A TEACHER'S VOIC
IN A NOISY CLASSROOM
SO WE SIMPLY KNOW THAT IF YO
ASK PEOPLE TO REPEAT BAC
SENTENCES THAT ARE PRESENTED T
THEM IN BACKGROUND NOISE, THAT
IF YOU HAVE MUSICAL TRAINING
THAT YOU ARE BETTER AT REPEATING
BACK THE SENTENCES ACCURATEL
THAN IF YOU DID NOT HAVE THA
MUSICAL TRAINING
>> I GUESS THAT IS ESPECIALL
TRUE WHEN A CHILD IS IN AN
ORCHESTRA HAS HAS TO DISTINGIS
THE NOISE HE IS MAKING
>> THEIR COMPREHENSION O
MEANING IN A NOISY ENVIRONMENT
GOES UP ONLY AFTER THEY HAVE
STARTED MUSIC.
>> AND THE KIDS WHO HAVE HAD TWO
YEARS ARE CONTINUING TO MAKE
GAINS.
>> MUSIC EDUCATION IS AN
IMPORTANT INVESTMENT IN TEACHING
A CHILD ALL KINDS OF SKILLS.
>> DR. CROUSE IS ANALYZING DAT
BUT PRELIMINARY FINDINGS SUGGEST
THAT MUSIC MAY ENHANCE THE
NEUROLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT OF KIDS
IN THE HARMONY PROJECT WHO WER
BEHIND IN SCHOOL
>> YOU CAN DOCUMENT THAT KID
WHO HAVE HAD MUSICAL EDUCATION
NOW HAVE NERVOUS SYSTEMS THA
RESPOND MORE ACCURATELY AN
PRECISELY TO MEANINGFUL ELEMENTS
IN LANGUAGE.
>> IN SCIENCE I HAD VERY LOW
GRADES
WHEN I STARTED LEARNING ABOU
MUSIC, BEING ABLE TO PRACTIC
AND CONCENTRATING, MY GRADES
HAVE GONE HIGHER
I WOULD CONCENTRATE IN MY MUSIC.
IT WOULD BE SOMETHING TO B
FOCUSED ON AND NOT BE BOTHERED
BY ANYONE.
I WAS USING THAT IN MY HOMEWORK.
SCIENCE IS NOW ONE OF MY BES
SUBJECTS
>> DO YOU LIKE IT NOW?
>> I LOVE IT
>> WHAT DO YOU SAY TO THOSE WH
SAY THE KIDS ARE LISTENING T
MUSIC ALL THE TIME
WHY DOESN'T THAT WORK?
>> NO ONE EVER GOT FIT WATCHIN
SPECTATOR SPORTS
PLUGGING IN AND LISTENING TO
MUSIC, IT DOESN'T FIX YOUR
BRAIN.
DOING IT TRANSFORMS YOUR NERVOUS
SYSTEM
IT MAKES YOU BASICALLY A BETTE
LEARNER.
>> WHO IS TO SAY THAT ARTS
EDUCATION IN GENERAL, WHETHE
IT'S DANCE OR PAINTING MIGHT B
AS BENEFICIAL AS MUSIC IN TERM
OF DEVELOPING LEARNING SKILL
FOR THESE KIDS
>> THERE IS BEEN A NUMBER OF
STUDIES AND THE LANGUAGE
ABILITIES SEEM TO BE
STRENGTHENED BY THE MUSI
INSTRUCTION MORE THAN THE ART.
AND SO THESE LANGUAGE BASE
SKILLS SEEM TO PROFIT FROM MUSIC
INSTRUCTION.
>> THE HARMONY PROJECT HAS THE
17 SITES IN LOS ANGELES AND ON
IN VENTURA AND 16 MORE IN THRE
OTHER STATES
>> HERE WE
GO
>> WHAT ARE THE GOALS?
WHERE DO YOU WANT TO TAKE THIS
>> OH, MAN
MY DREAM IS TO BUILD HARMONY
PROJECT PROGRAMS IN INNER CITIES
THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY BECAUSE
OUR STUDENTS ARE ACHIEVING THEIR
UNIQUE POTENTIAL
THEY ARE BLOSSOMING.
>> FIND OUT HOW SCIENTISTS
EDUCATORS AND MUSICIANS AR
COLLABORATING TO FIGURE OUT HO
THE BRAIN IS AFFECTED BY MUSIC
VISIT NEWSHOUR.PBS.ORG
>>> ARE YOU COUNTING CALORIE
AFTER THE HOLIDAYS
HAVE YOU EVER KEPT A JOURNAL
DETAILING WHAT YOU ARE EATIN
AND DRINKING AND WORN A ME DOM
TERRA?
IF YOU ANSWER YES THEN YOU HAV
QUANTIFIED YOURSELF.
HERE IS ANOTHER LOOK AT TH
REPORT WE BROUGHT YOU BACK I
SEPTEMBER.
>> THIS IS ACTUALLY HO
41-YEAR-OLD BOB SOMETIME
SLEEPS, WITH THIS GADGET ON HI
HEAD
SO WHEN HE WAKES UP, HE CAN SE
NOT ONLY HOW LONG HE SLEPT BUT
HE KNOWS WHEN AND HOW LONG H
WAS IN R.E.M. SLEEP, LIGHT SLEEP
AND DEEP SLEEP
>> I HAVE A POINT AROUND 6:0
A.M. WHERE MY DOG TENDS TO BAR
AT SOMEBODY AND THEN I FALL BACK
ASLEEP
>> Reporter: THIS IS THE START
OF HIS DATA FILLED MORNING
ROUTINE.
BEFORE HE GETS OUT OF BED HE
USES AN iPHONE APP TO TAKE HIS
PULSE, WEIGHS HIMSELF, TAKES HIS
BLOOD PRESSURE AND HIS BLOOD
GLUCOSE LEVEL.
>> I HAVE AN ELEVATED RISK FOR
TYPE II DIABETES
>> Reporter: AND ALL THROUGHOU
THE DAY A MONITOR ON HIS CHEST
COLLECT DATA ABOUT HIS HEART
RATE, SWEAT LEVELS AND SKI
TEMPERATURE SO HE CAN KEEP HIS
STRESS LEVELS IN CHECK
>> I CAN LOOK AT MY PHONE AN
SEE AT ANY MOMENT HOW STRESSED
AM I
>> Reporter: ALL THE INFORMATION
IS COLLECTED IN A COMPUTER
SMARTPHONE OR SPREAD SHEET
THE POINT OF ALL THIS TRACK AN
MONITORING
>> HE SAYS IN ADDITION T
KEEPING DIABETES AT BAY HE JUS
WANTS TO STAY HEALTHY.
>> WHEN I TURN 40 FOR ME WAS YOU
START LOOKING AHEAD.
SO I THINK THE IDEA FOR ME I
DOING WHATEVER I CAN TAKE TO
ENSURE THAT I HAVE THIS SORT O
LONG, ENJOYABLE LIFE
>> HIS TRACKING MAY SEEM EXTREME
BUT HE IS NOT ALONE.
HE IS PART OF A MOVEMENT CALLE
QUANTIFIED SELF, TRACKING AN
QUANTIFYING ALL KINDS OF
PERSONAL DATA.
60% OF AMERICAN ADULTS TRACK
THEIR WEIGHT, DIET OR EXERCISE
ROUTINE AND MILLIONS ARE USING
TECHNOLOGY TO DO IT.
THERE ARE THOUSANDS OF HEALT
AND FITNESS SMARTPHONE APPS AN
THE WEARABLE DEVICE INDUSTRY
COULD GROW TO A BILLION DOLLAR
INCLUDING THESE BANDS THAT TRACK
STEPS AND CALORIES TO HEART RATE
AND SLEEP QUALITY.
>> DAVID IS A TECHNOLOGY
COLUMNIST AND THE HOST OF NOVA
SCIENCE NOW.
HE SAYS SELF QUANTIFIERS RANGE
FROM THOSE TRYING TO LOSE WEIGHT
TO THE HARD CORE
THEY CAN BE POWERFUL MOTIVATORS.
>> THE AWARENESS YOU ARE BEING
WATCHED AND MONITORED LEADS YO
TO GET MORE ACTIVITIES
YOU TAKE MORE STAIRS AND GET OFF
THE SUBWAY EARLIER
THEY REWARD YOU WITH LIGHTS AN
GRAPHS FOR DOING WELL.
>> Reporter: MANY DEVICES LE
YOU COMPARE YOUR DATA WITH OTHER
USERS.
>> THERE IS A COMPETITIV
ELEMENT TO IT.
IT'S FITNESS THROUGH SHAME
>> Reporter: THERE IS
COMMUNITY FOR DEDICATED SELF
QUANTIFIERS ACROSS THE U.S. AN
AROUND THE WORLD WHO GATHE
OFTEN TO SHARE EXPERIENCES AND
DATA
AT THIS GATHERING IN NEW YOR
CITY WHICH HAD A WAIT LIST T
GET IN, THE MAIN EVENT WAS A
SHOW AND TELL.
>> I WAS EATING A LOT OF BUTTER.
>> Reporter: BUT THESE ARE NOT
SHARING INFORMATION WITH EAC
OTHER.
THEY ARE UPLOADING MASSIVE
QUANTITIES OF PERSONAL DATA TO
THE SERVERS OF THE COMPANIES
THAT MAKE THESE GADGETS AN
SMARTPHONE APPS.
>> IT'S GOING TO TRANSMIT MY DAY
TO THAT A SERVER
>> Reporter: THERE IS A LOT OF
DISCUSSION IN THE COMMUNIT
RIGHT NOW ABOUT WHO OWNS THE
DATA AND WHAT CAN BE DONE WITH
IT
BUT AT THE END OF THE DAY, HE IS
NOT TOO CONCERNED.
AFTER ALL, THE RISKS ARE SMALL
COMPARED TO HIS GOALS.
EVERYTHING FROM PREVENTING
DIABETES TO OPTIMIZING HIS TIME.
>> MY GOAL IS TO BASICALLY BE AN
OPTIMAL HUMAN BEING IN EVERY
ASPECT OF MY LIFE.
>>> THIS IS PBS "THE NEWSHOU
WEEKEND" SATURDAY.
>>> IN DOLLAR TERMS PETROLEU
AND CHEMICAL PRODUCTS ARE AMON
AMERICA'S LARGEST EXPORTS BUT IN
TERMS OF INFLUENCE NONE IS MOR
POWERFUL THAN OUR MUSIC.
WORD THAT PHIL EVERYBODIERLY
DIED LAST NIGHT WA
INTERNATIONAL NEWS YESTERDAY
>> ♪ DREAM DREAM DREAM DREAM
DREAM.
>> PHIL EVERLY WAS ONE-HALF OF
THE ONE OF THE BIGGEST ACTS IN
THE 1950s AND 1960s, PART OF THE
BIRTH OF ROCK 'N' ROLL
♪ ALL I HAVE TO DO IS DREAM ♪
♪ WAKE UP LITTLE SUSIE WAKE UP ♪
>> THEIR HARMONIES MADE THEM
FAMOUS AND MORE THAN THAT THEY
INSPIRED OTHERS FROM BOB DYLAN
TO THE BEATLES
♪ THE MOVIES OVER -
>> PHIL WAS PROUD TO BE A PART
OF THAT MUSICAL HERITAGE
>> THE CHILDREN PLAY GUITARS AND
THEY ARE INFLUENCED BY PEOPLE WE
MAY HAVE INFLUENCED.
IT SORT OF KEEPS GOING
IT'S A POSITIVE THING.
>> Reporter: THEIR VOICES WERE
INSEPARABLE.
THEY REUNITED IN THE 1980s AND
REMAINED CLOSE
♪ HERE HE COMES THAT KATHY'
CLOWN ♪
>> Reporter: PHIL DIED IN LO
ANGELES OF COMPLICATIONS FRO
LUNG CANCER.
HE WAS 74.
♪ HERE HE COMES THAT KATHY'
CLOWN ♪
>>> JOIN US TOMORROW ON AIR AN
ONLINE
WE REPORT ON THE CONTROVERSIAL
LAWS IN BRITISH COLUMBIA THA
HAVE REDUCED DRUNK DRIVING
DEATH.
>> THESE LAWS EPITOMIZE
PERFECT ACTION
>> THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION OF
PBS "THE NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN
THANKS FOR WATCHING.